# JuRIDEX - Judicial Records Information and Data Exchange

## Overview

**JURIDEX** is a Criminal Database Management System designed to manage and visualize data related to criminal activities. The system uses a combination of MySQL, Express, React, and Node.js to provide a robust solution for tracking and managing criminal records. It also integrates maps for visualizing crime locations.

## Technologies Used

- **Frontend**: React
- **Backend**: Node.js, Express
- **Database**: MySQL
- **Maps Integration**: [OpenStreetMap API](https://www.openstreetmap.org/about/api/)
- **Authentication**: Firebase

## Features

### Backend

- **Database**: Utilizes MySQL to store information about crimes, individuals, criminal records, police officers, court cases, and witnesses.
- **API Routes**: Provides RESTful endpoints for CRUD operations on crime records, individuals, police officers, court cases, and witnesses.
- **Authentication**: Secured endpoints using Firebase for user authentication.

### Frontend

- **Dashboard**: Provides an overview of the system with key statistics and data visualization.
- **Login & Signup Pages**: Allows users to authenticate and register using Firebase.
- **Crime Visualization**: Integrated with Google Maps API to display crime locations using latitude and longitude.

### Maps Integration

- **Crime Location Visualization**: Displays the geographical locations of crimes on an interactive map, allowing users to view and analyze crime data visually.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (>=14.x)
- MySQL (>=8.x)
- Firebase account

### Backend Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/SpaceTesla/juridex.git
   ```
   
2. Navigate to the server directory:
   ```bash
   cd JURIDEX/server
   ```
   
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
   
4. Create and configure the .env file with your database credentials and Firebase settings.
   
   

   ```env
   # Use this template and save it in server folder

   # SERVER
   DB_HOST=localhost
   DB_USER=root
   DB_PASSWORD=<your sql password>
   DB_NAME=JuRIDEX

   # CLIENT
   PORT=5000
   REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:5000

   #Generated by firebase
   FIREBASE_API_KEY=<enter your text>
   FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=<enter your link>
   FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=<enter your text>
   FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=<enter your text>
   FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=<enter your text>
   FIREBASE_APP_ID=<enter your text>
   FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=<enter your text>
   ```

5. Start the server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the client directory:
   ```bash
   cd JURIDEX/client
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the react app
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

## API Documentation
You can read the API documentation [here](https://github.com/SpaceTesla/juridex/blob/main/server/readme.md) or in the /`server` folder.

## Contributing
To contribute to the project, please fork the repository and submit a pull request. Ensure that your changes are well-tested and documented.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact
For any questions or further information, please contact [@SpaceTesla](https://github.com/SpaceTesla)
